Oibretexts:

9.7: Accessibility Checker in the Editor

Are you an instructor charged with putting together a textbook? You have resources available to help, especially with the
LibreTexts remixer, but you're reminded that it has to be accessible. You may not be familiar with accessibility integrations and
inquire "What resources are available within LibreTexts to help with accessibility?"

That's where the LibreTexts Accessibility Checker comes to help! The Accessibility Checker is available to authors while editing
or remixing textbooks. Select the tool from within the toolbar to fix issues that it finds.

The LibreTexts libraries are housed within the Nice CXOne platform, a CMS, and uses CKEditor 4 to import or create content.
Within the editor, we have made a Davinci Vitruvian man available as the Accessibility Checker icon. This feature has both
automated and manual fixes which authors interact with. Many of the automation features have manual overrides available so
author's have more control of how content is presented.

Edit View Format Style Elements Help

FE) save X&euro; cancel Headings ~|B J U|A~ O-|E\ IEE FE- Boxes -|Q|G 0 2° @

Mn
hil
Sy
(2

Arrow points to the Davinci Vitruvian man, the Accessibility Checker, the 22nd element in the toolbar.

Once you have activated the Accessibility Checker, a popup appears allowing authors to select checks to perform, or to perform
them all, which is the default setting. Abbreviations are excluded from the default at this time

Accessibility Checker x

Please select which issues you would like to test for:

© 1. All accessibility issues (DEFAULT)
2. Headings

© 3. Alt Image Tags

QO 4, Tables

© 5. Links

© 6. Color Contrast

© 7. Labels

© 8. Abbreviations (excluded by default)

Contact ckelibretext@ucdavis.edu for bug reporting.

Heading fixes

The tool will locate bold and italic content and suggest heading levels based on the page layout. H1 is always available at the top of
the page, so LibreTexts may suggest H2, H3, and H4 to layout their textbooks. Containers (i.e. Learning Objectives, Examples,
etc.) start with HS and have H6, and H7 to help users navigate using headings. We're using ARIA labels to create headings with a
level of 7.

| * > conngurauon a
eee eee 1
1 Accessibility Checker x
4
'
4 Issue 1 of 22 (error) 4 [>]
When designating a structure as R or S, you must ensure that the atom or group with the lowest priority is pointing aw!
easiest way to show this is to use the wedge-and-broken-line representation. You can then immediately determine wher
i 1 Headers for box legends should use an h5 tag
configuration or an S configuration.

4 Box legends should use headers to maintain page
1 organization

To name the enantiomers of a compound unambiguously, their names must include the "handedness" of the molecule. The method fe

nomenclature.
Introduction 1 Contact ckelibretext@ucdavis.edu for bug reporting
IL Ifthe quick fix button doesn't show up, please refresh the page.

Tha mathad af uinambinuniichs accinninn tha handadnace af malariilac wae nrininatad hv thraa chamicte: D © Cahn C Tanald Jee nianrahad = Te
The Accessibility Checker recognizes the wrong heading was used for this Study Notes container and suggests H5 with a quick fix
button to fix the issue.

https ://chem.libretexts .org/@go/page/483741


--- Page Break ---

Oibretexts:

Accessibility Checker xt

Issue 3 of 22 (warning) 4 [>]

+6-CHy 6-H poceeeseenenseeseesendeny
H H

equal

The "C-" (right) ranks higher than the "H-" (left) based on
the first point of difference and their relative atomic numbers.

Paragraphs must not be used for headers

1

1

1!

1

1

'

1!

'
Headers are extremely useful for non-sighted users to t
navigate the structure of the page. Formatting a paragraph tog
just be big or bold, while it might visually look like aheader,
does not make it a header. '
1!

'

'

1!

1

1!

1

1

1!

!

a

Header level: H6 (Suggested) v

Contact ckelibretext@ucdavis.edu for bug reporting

If the quick fix button doesn't show up, please refresh the page.

=e 1 =

The Accessibility Checker recognizes bold text and suggests a heading of 6 since it's within a container which starts with a heading
5, but has a drop down option to select a different heading if the suggestion isn't correct.

ee oe

In the following screenshot, the Accessibility Checker identified bold text from a caption and suggested a heading 2. In the "Issue"
notification of the checker, which shows the author is on 4 out of 9 issues, there are left and right buttons to allow authors to ignore
suggested fixes. Once the "Quick fix" has been submitted, the issue will disappear from the list of issues.

rere
Now take your molecular model and orientate it to match the molecule in question. Remember in the dash/wedge representation, two! Accessibility Checker
page. The wedge bond is coming toward you and the dashed bond is going away from you. If you were to hold a piece of paper direc,
the regular bond should both be touching the piece of paper. The dashed bond should be pointing behind the piece of paper and the :

x

Issue 4 of 9 (warning) ai>

Paragraphs must not be used for headers

Headers are extremely useful for non-sighted users to

Navigate the structure of the page. Formatting a paragraph to

just be big or bold, while it might visually look like a header,
does not make it a header.

" In this structure, the bromine is going away from you, the hydrogen is coming toward you and the hydroxide and ny
1

page. '
ee ee a

1
Then based on the position, assign each substituent on the chiral carbon a colored ball on your molecular model. In this case, broming

ball. The hydrogen is coming toward you so it is assigned the blue ball. The last two substituents are in the plane of the page, howeve Contact ckelibretext@ucdavis.edu for bug reporting
, 5 i - IIIf the quick ffx button doesn't show up, please refresh the page.
assigned the red ball which leaves OH being assigned the black ball. bee eee eee

Accessibility Checker has incorrectly located bold content within a caption and is suggesting a heading level of 2 be applied.

Graphics and Alt Tags

For all graphics and images, the Accessibility Checker will require user interaction. The pop-up requesting alternative text for
images give users the following options:

e Non-decorative
e Decorative (select if image is already discussed on page)
e Change alt text to caption

"Non-decorative" will require text within the Alternative text field. "Decorative" will make an empty alt tag to mark it as
decorative to screenreaders. "Change alt text to caption" will convert alt text with 150 characters and suggest changing to a caption
so learning disabled students benefit. The quick fix button will implement the accessibility fix on the users behalf.

ant directly attached to chiral carbon, proceed along the substituent chains until a point.of difference. is found, = A ee eee &e,
n with the highest priority (the highest atomic number). That chain has the higher prio Accessibility Checker x I
1

1
'ubstituent. At the connectivity of the stereocenter, both have a carbon atom, which ar 4
j to it, whereas the ethyl has two hydrogen atoms and a carbon atom. The carbon ator; !Ss¥e 1 of 13 (error) a)
jrogen; therefore the ethyl takes priority over the methyl. ;
Presse eee eee eee I
g lower higher 1 Image alternative text is too long ;
: H SH as Image alternative text should be clear and concise.
1 | woe 1
1 H-c-3 vs. H--C- oat Alternative text longer than 150 characters should be r]
P| | | ! i reviewed to see if it can be shortened. t
H HH a

the "C-" (right) based on the relative molecular weights at the first point of difference.

v Non-decorative

Decorative (select if image is already discussed on page)
Change alt text to caption

T
| i i i
+c-o-H +¢-0-H +c-ar 1
AF AF AF Contact ckelibretext@ucdavis.edu for bug reporting. i

I If the quick fix button doesn't show up, please refresh the page. -

a

higher, | lower higher i beeeeeee sees geese

The Accessibility Checker appears as a blue dotted popup with 3 options: Non-Decorative (requires user input), Decorative (select
if image is already discussed on page), or Change alt text to caption if it's over 150 words.

The tool will also check if the filename is used as alt text and request the author to submit text to replace the filename with an
accessible description.

cM)

https ://chem.libretexts .org/@go/page/483741



--- Page Break ---

Oibretexts:

Exercise \(\PageIndex{1}\)

r)
1
1) Orient the following so that the least priority (4) atom is paced behind, then assign stereochemit

HS tt |

4 3
1 A B

nN
bheeee eee =

2) Draw (R)-2-bromobutan-2-ol.

3) Assign (R)S) to the following molecule.

Accessibility Checker x

Issue 5 of 13 (notice) 4 [>|

Use empty alternative text only for decorative
images

Empty alternative text can only be used if the image serves
purely decoration purposes. If the image is supposed to
convey any information whatsoever, you need to set a proper
alternative text for it.

Image type: Non-decorative v

Alternative text:

The Accessibility Checker reports an empty alt for an image and requests user input for a quick fix.

Table fixes

Table accessibility is addressed by the Accessibility Checker and only requires user input for captions and summaries. You don't
need to know code for column or row headers, or simplified groups of column or row headers. It's all automagically fixed in the
background. Note, there may be complex table(s) which the tool doesn't properly fix.

Complex tables which combine multiple tables into one may need to be separated into multiple tables. While it may be visually
appealing to combine the tables, it's impossible to create accessible headings for content after heading columns or rows have been

established.

Percent by Level

10%

4 Accessibility Checker x

Issue 1 of 4 (error) 4 [>]

Data tables should contain a "caption" element if
not described elsewhere

Unless otherwise described in the document, tables should
contain |capt:ion| elements to describe the purpose of the
table.

Caption:

Conformance Level Definition Count by Level
Usable with Best Practices The activity requires minimal 5
(labeled in green) adjustments by content authors
Usable with Workarounds The activity requires significant 25
(labeled in yellow) adjustments by content authors
Requires Alternative Activity The activity is not usable by some 17
(labeled in red) users
The activi not evaluated

Not Evaluated (labeled in an er 3
blue)

Total Number of H5P activities 50

Contact ckelibretext@ucdavis.edu for bug reporting
If the quick fix button doesn't show up, please refresh the page.
bese ee eee eee eee sees geen

Accessibility Checker has identified a missing caption for the table and requests user input to quick fix the issue.

Conformance Level Definition Count by Level Percent by Level

Usable with Best Practices The activity requires minimal 5 10%

(labeled in green) adjustments by content authors
es

Usable with Workarounds The activity requires significant 25 J Accessibility Checker x 4

(labeled in yellow) adjustments by content authors ' '
{Issue 2 of 4 (warning) 4 [>] .
4 1
1 1
1 1

Requires Alternative Activity The activity is not usable by some 17 1 Complex tables should have a summary 1

(labeled in red) users {tf table is complex (for example, has some cells with :
| "colspan" attributes, the table should have a summary. 1
1 1

The activity type was not evaluated : Summary: i

Not Evaluated (labeled in 3 J '
1 1
1 1
1 Contact ckelibretext@ucdavis.edu for bug reporting. 1

Total Number of HSP activities 50 IL Ifthe quick fix button doesn't show up, please refresh the page.

i seieeceecseenseeeeg yee

In the same table, the Accessibility Checker has identified a missing summary which can add instructions for reading complex

tables.

Links and URL's

To address the inaccessibility of links and URL's, the team worked on a number of updates. Non-unique links (click here, more,

etc.) and URL's can be difficult for screenreaders or magnifiers to interact with.

https ://chem.libretexts .org/@go/page/483741


--- Page Break ---

Oibretexts:

The tool locates non-unique links or posted URL's and request user interaction to enter in text and replace the URL. Once entered,
the tool will then detect if it's a LibreTexts link or if it links to another site. If it's a LibreTexts link, nothing else is done. If it's a
link outside of LibreTexts, the tool will wrap the base of the site in brackets and place it after the link.

Pee e eee eee eee
When you log in with your instructor's account a Sandbox will be created for you. You} Accessibility Checker x

username and select "Sandbox" . The content of your sandbox is not publicly viewable

given specific access to, and to curators of LibreTexts. Issue 5 of 11 (error) 4 [>]

There exists a link text that contains or starts

You can start by using the remixer to set up the structure of the book you will build. Ty with http(s)
you can use the "new" button on the black toolbar which appears when you login. Sea URL's are inaccessible to screenreaders due to the long text
1

. . . link, shorten to a link description for accessibility purposes. If
creating. This will be an empty Course Shell that needs content added. IL leaving libretext, the checker will list site automatically.

Step 4: Create an Empty Course

i
While the organization of a course shell can vary, they almost always have a "Text" wht

Link:
was customized for the instructor for whom the course shell was made. Here are some

Contact ckelibretext@ucdavis.edu for bug reporting.
If the quick fix button doesn't show up, please refresh the page. I
bee ee eee eee eee eee eee

" Search [google.com]

" Fiche rete org Corsea]sacaren iy. ColgpSORIR Grams
L.Seneral62C Organic and, Biochemistry (Bennet)

ro

eee

mal

Accessibility Checker found and fixed a Search link, with Google in brackets, while the tool waits for user input on a highlighted
inaccessible link.

The tool will also locate emails within content and request user interaction for typing in the name. The tool will automatically place
"eMail:" before the name to make it clear what it's linking to.

Hub so your : students can access it. Until we get

5 at info@libretexts.org,to publish.

1g the LibreTexts Network.

q Accessibility Checker x

Issue 11 of 11 (error) 4 [>]

There exists a link displaying the whole email
address

A'mail-to' link must not contain the whole email address as
its text as it already links to it. Please input name only, email
will be placed before the name.

Email Owner:

Contact ckelibretext@ucdavis.edu for bug reporting.
If the quick fix button doesn't show up, please refresh the page.
bese eee eee eee eee

eee ee ee

Color Contrast

This portion of the tool is still being worked on and is not currently active in the Accessibility Checker. The color contrast will
address contrast issues of text content, to ensure all text is accessible and authors aren't use contrasting colors. This is turned off at
the moment due to interfering with links.

Labels

The labels section is also still being worked on and is not currently active in the Accessibility Checker. This section will fix form
fields and links to ensure they're properly labeled and interact with assistive technologies. This is turned off at the moment as we
work on some reported issues.

Abbreviations and Acronyms

The acronyms section is currently in Beta, and is separate from the rest of the scripts and must be selected from the menu to run.

If you have content in ALL CAPS, such as abbreviations or acronyms, the Accessibility Checker will find unique instances and
require user input. Once an element has been located, the following choices will be available:

e Label acronym
e Reformat text to lowercase (recommended for non-acronyms)

(cc) (#) https ://chem.libretexts .org/@go/page/483741



--- Page Break ---

Oibretexts:

e Ignore text
Summary
This document includes a guide designed to help H5P content authors avoid creating accessibility barriers for users. The purpose is to ensure the HSP activities are as

accessible as currently possible. Content authors should also follow all accessibility techniques for digital content. For additional information, review, ASCCC.Quick Guides
Accessibility Overview and Accessibility Resources.

Accessibility Checker x

>-

Accessibility Standards 1

weeeees '
The Academic Senate for California Community Colleges (ASCCC) Open Educational Resources Initiative (OERI) uses the Revised 508%
standards for instructional content like H5P activities. ASCCC recommends using content that conforms with the Revised 508 Standary
This means that various users with disabilities can read, understand, and interact with content and activities with about as much effol

Issue 1 of 5 (error) a>

This page contains at least one acronym that
should be given a definition

Reported Accessibility Barriers Acronyms should be given a definition at its first appearance
on the page. Input "N/A" if his is not an acronym and should
ASCCC identified accessibility barriers with HSP activities in April 2020 and provided detailed feedback to HSP developers. For examplt be tanores: Te chemical notation, Iino input appears, press
failures with the Mark the Words activity type. In response, H5P updated the Content types recommendations page to include the aq

activity type.
ASCCC reported the following results for the activity types ASCCC evaluated:

Fix: Label Acronym v
Definition of "ASCCC":

Contact ckelibretext@ucdavis.edu for bug reporting,
If the quick fix button doesn't show up, please refresh the page.

" Drag the Words, not recommended
" Fill in the Blanks, recommended with workarounds
" Mark the Words, not recommended
+ Multinle Choice. recommended with workarounds.

ASCCC is highlighted in red dashes with the Accessibility Checker requiring a definition entered for ASCCC and a Quick fix
button.

Choosing "Label acronym" will allow the user to enter a definition to be added which are accessible to mouse and keyboard as a
tooltip. We have altered tooltips to be accessible to keyboard users, which allows users to select and enlarge fonts.

This will add a tooltip to all acronyms which users can use their mouse or keyboard to review the acronym definition. Previously
this was presented as small, inaccessible, text.

Choosing "Reformat text to lowercase" will alter the text so that it's no longer ALL CAP, which will force the tool to ignore it.
Choosing "Ignore text" will keep the text in ALL CAP and ignore additional attempts to update it.

Because of these labels, a tooltip will be made available to inform users of the meaning. Tooltips were already accessible to
screenreaders, but we've worked to make it more accessible to mouse and keyboard users! Users can now enlarge and select the
text within tooltips!

Every once in a while, form fields the user interacts with will not display in the tool. Please refresh the page to fix this issue. If you
run into further issues, please contact our Support Center with the link of the page and error(s) occurring.

This page titled 9.7: Accessibility Checker in the Editor is shared under a CC BY license and was authored, remixed, and/or curated by Joshua
Hori.

" 4.9: Accessibility Checker in the Editor by Joshua Hori is licensed CC BY 4.0.

https ://chem.libretexts .org/@go/page/483741
