Oibretexts:

8.8: Page Titles

I wanted to mention the title format that we have adopted on the LibreTexts for pages. Unless impossible to do, it is desired that
each page be formatted like this

"XX.YY: title"

where

e XX is the chapter number
e YY is the section number
e title is the page title

If the title has a colon in it (other than the colon after the chapter.section combo), please convert it to a dash.
Several exceptions to this format include:

e Chapter Summaries: "XX.S: Chapter Title (Summary)"),

e Chapter Exercises: "XX:.E Chapter Title (Exercises)" and

e Section Subpages (avoid if possible), which should be then indicated by adding a letter (alphabetically). e.g., "4.3A: Cats are
cute" and "4.3B: Dogs are cute" are both subsections to section/page "4.3: Animals are cute"

This approach preserves the curation and Remixing ability of the pages. It also preserves the automatic equation/figure/table
numbering that uses the title of the page.

As an example of this approach, here is a snippet of the organization of a Bio text:
BIS 103: Bioenergetics and Metabolism (Callis)

e 1: Introduction to Metabolism

o 1.1: Bioenergetics and Thermodynamics
o 1.2: Chemical Logic and Common Biochemical Reactions
o 1.3: Phosphoryl Group Transfer and ATP
o 1.4: Biological Oxidation-Reduction Reactions
2: Carbohydrates and Catabolism of Carbohydrates
o 2.1: Carbohydrates- structure and diversity in biology
© 2.2: Catabolism of glucose-glycolysis as the first pathway tells us about some general metabolic principles
© 2.3: Catabolism of other sugars- organisms can catabolize sugars other than glucose
o 2.4: Polysaccharide Catabolism
e 3: The Citric Acid Cycle
o 3.1: Introduction to decarboxylation of acids- comparing PDC and PDH
o 3.2: TCA cycle
o 3.3: Functions of TCA cycle- catabolism and anabolism
e 4: Carbohydrate Synthesis
o 4.1: Gluconeogenesis
o 4.2: Synthesis of di-saccharides and polysaccharides

If, when you are logged in and looking at a page for which you have editing right, when you move the mouse to the title line at the
top you will see a pencil at the far right hand side

2: Audience Analysis and Listening 4%
OOO) Last updated: Feb 20, 2021, 2:49 AM by Delmar Larsen Page restriction: Public Page ID: 17739

If you select the pencil you will see a dialog

https ://chem.libretexts .org/@go/page/483727



--- Page Break ---

Oibretexts:

2: Audience Analysis and Listening

& https://socialsci.libretexts.org/Bookshelves/.../ | 02:_Audience_Analysis_and_List

Update title

The top line is the Title of the page and can be changed as you will. The number, which can be X, or XX or XX.YY interacts with
PageIndex numbering. The second line is the system URL for the page. Sometimes this is grayed out, and will change when you
change the Title line. As you can see here, the URL starts with 02: but the Title with 2: The reason for this is that if the URLs are a
single number, and there are more than 9 of them, the URL starting with 10, 11, etc, will go before those starting with 1, 2, 3, etc.
and you may have to use the remixer, or change the URLs by hand.

This page titled 8.8: Page Titles is shared under a CC BY 1.3 license and was authored, remixed, and/or curated by Delmar Larsen.

e 3.11: Page Titles by Delmar Larsen is licensed CC BY 1.3.

https ://chem.libretexts .org/@go/page/483727
