Oibretexts:

2.1: What is the framework for design?

When building a LibreTexts page, consider: content, architecture, and pedagogy (CAP) as a framework. A framework is a basic
structure underlying a concept, system, or process. In order to maximize learning as a process, we must begin by examining the
framework of learning itself -- how we assimilate new knowledge. CAP provides us a starting point to begin to think differently
about how we learn. Are chapters the only way to learn something new? How do we think about complex ideas? Are there
alternatives to traditional textbook reading and lectures? CAP provides us with helpful insights into research-based best practices to
enhance student educational outcomes.

e A framework is the guiding principle behind understanding how to design or think about a teaching material.

e Content, Architecture, and Pedagogy (CAP) is the design framework for how to approach designing your own teaching
material online.

e Putting a PDF of a textbook online undermines all of the pedagogical advantages that the hypertext online medium has to
enhance student learning.\

Extendability
¢ Adaptability
* Connectivity

¢ Visible Linked Connections

a Accessibility

Sharing & Scaffolding
Explorability
Retrievability
Transparency (Wholeness)
Orientability

* Authenticity

* Use of Multiple 4
Representations .

Cultural Crossroads
Hypertext Learning

a Triplet Relationship

* Promoting 2-D < 3-D

* Presenting Dynamic
and Interactive Nature
of Chemistry

Navigability
Sociability
Collaborative Tools
Authoring Capability
Communicability
Reflexivity

PEDAGOGY

Interactivity
Contextualization

Intertextuality
Reciprocity
Multiplicity
Associability
Manipulability

oe eo ee

Reducing cognitive load by
making info explicit and
integrated

Figure 1. This diagram shows the interaction between Content, Architecture, and Pedagogy. The large square bullet points are
headings from Shorb 2011.
The bullet points in serif font are from Yang 2001. The italicized headings are from Wu and Shah 2002.

This page titled 2.1: What is the framework for design? is shared under a CC BY 1.3 license and was authored, remixed, and/or curated by
Delmar Larsen.

https ://chem.libretexts .org/@go/page/483689



--- Page Break ---

Oibretexts:

e 2.1: What is the framework for design? by Delmar Larsen is licensed CC BY 1.3.

https ://chem.libretexts .org/@go/page/483689
