Oibretexts:

14.7: Embedding Summative ADAPT Assessments into Textbook

Section 5.7 of the Construction guide discusses how to embed interactive assessment into Libretexts pages in a formative manner
(i.e., without a gradebook). The ADAPT system also allows the embedding of Adapt assessments in your LibreTexts book in a
summative manner. This allows students to find them easier and complete the assignments without leaving the textbook.

You can create a separate page for embedding assignments or add them to existing pages. See Construction Guide to learn more on
page creation.

Students have to be logged into their Adapt account to see the embedded assignment. Assignments won't be visible in the print
version of your book.

Embedding Summative Assessments
To embed a new Adapt assignment to your LibreTexts page:

1. First add the assignment and assessments to ADAPT itself. See Adding/Importing Assignments and Adding New Assessments
to learn more
2. Copy the assignment ID. You can select the text - Right click -- Copy or just click on the copy icon next to the ID

Add Assessments Qu estions

Assignment Information
Order Title Adapt ID @ Submission Points Solution Actions

=1 Interactive Video 794-100857 (0) hSp, Rich Text 10 None OG

Auto-Graded Submissions

Figure 14.7.1: Copy the Adapt ID

3. Open the LibreText page that you'd like to add this assessment to
4. Click Edit (See more on page editing in the Basic Editing section of the Construction Guide)
5. Select Adapt Icon to insert a new Adapt assessment

:= Contents| #@ Home " ยง-\ Campus Bookshelves " ff} University of Arkansas Little Rock " jj Chem 1403L: General Chemistry Lab (Fall 2021) "

+ Page settings

1: Prelab
Last updated: May 24, 2021, 12:55 PM by Elena Lisitsyna Page restriction: Public Page ID: 323005 4.1: Graphing | 2: Lab Manual "
Edit View Format tyle Elements Help ds: 0, Chars: @
El seve X cancel vom = |B J YU A O- LEE |B Pe BBQ \@ or <> wT.
Figure 14.7.2: To embed Adapt assessment click on the Adapt icon
6. Type/paste your Adapt ID that you copied in Step 2 and click "OK"
Libretexts Adapt Plugin x

Please enter a valid Adapt ID in the format 123-12345:
794-100857
mm Eo

Figure 14.7.3: Type or paste the Adapt ID and click OK
7. You can edit the numbering if you have more than one embedded assessment. If you have 3 Adapt assessments on the same
page by default they all will be labeled "ADAPT 1", but if you change the numbering you can have "ADAPT 1", "ADAPT 2"
and "ADAPT 3"

https ://chem.libretexts .org/@go/page/483790



--- Page Break ---

Oibretexts:

Looe! save (ust nom) 2.Viho is editing nobody eine is currertty editing ()

Figure 14.7.4: You can change the numbering by editing the number in parentheses
8. Click "Save" to save your page. You should see your Adapt assessment embedded.

If you see an error message "You are not logged in!" you need to log in using Campus Login or (if you don't have campus
login setup) you need to open Adapt website, log into your account and then refresh the LibreText page.

For practice problems, you can also embed problems as 'formative' which do not require login

To do this, the assignment must be set up as a Formative assignment in ADAPT. Then all the same steps can be followed as above.

This page titled 14.7: Embedding Summative ADAPT Assessments into Textbook is shared under a CC BY 1.3 license and was authored,
remixed, and/or curated by Delmar Larsen.

e 9.7: Embedding Summative ADAPT Assessments into Textbook by Delmar Larsen is licensed CC BY 1.3.

https ://chem.libretexts .org/@go/page/483790

