Oibretexts:

14.5: Assignment Control Panel

When viewing the assignments in ADAPT, there is a micro-control panel that allows instructors to dynamically control how
students interact with the assignment (and its assessments).

Assignment Controls

To see the list of assignments available for grading:

1. Log into your Grader account
2. Select the course for grading
3. You will see all assignments currently available for grading

You can use the drop-down menu at the top to filter assignments by assignment group.

General Chemistry Assignments

All assignment groups >

All assignment groups

Homework Available
Quiz Group On |
Lab Homework 1/19/21!
Extra Credit 9:00 AM ]
= Clicker Extra 19/21!
Credit 9:00 AM {

Figure 14.5.1: This drop-down menu allows you to filter all assignments by group

You can see that there are several toggle switches for each assignment that affect what information students can and cannot see at

the time.
Available Points per
Assignment Name Shown Group On Due Status Question Scores Solutions Statistics Actions
= 1.1: First Homework 1/19/21 5/24/21 Open Gaz Gi AD -
Assignment 9:00 AM 12:00 AM

Figure 14.5.2: Assignment information and controls

e Shown - Controls whether the students can see the assignment. Only Instructor can use this toggle, Graders do not have access
to change it.

e Points per Question - Determines if students can see how many points each question in the assignment is worth
e Scores - Releases the scores to the students when switched to "Shown"

e Solutions - If you have a solution uploaded you can let students see it by switching this toggle to "Shown"

e Statistics - When switched to shown, students can see a chart showing score distribution

You can also see the Available On and Due dates and Status of each assignment (automatically changes to "Closed" after the due
date)

This page titled 14.5: Assignment Control Panel is shared under a CC BY 1.3 license and was authored, remixed, and/or curated by Delmar
Larsen.

e 9.5: Assignment Control Panel by Delmar Larsen is licensed CC BY 1.3.

(cc) (#) 14.5.1 https ://chem.libretexts .org/@go/page/483788
