Gibretexts-

10.3: Adding Summary

In the Page Settings of each LibreTexts page is a summary block that will accept approximately three lines of text (Figure 10.3.1).
Think of the summary as a tweet (like on Twitter) on the subject of the page. It is almost the same length as a tweet and has a
similar impact.

- Page settings 8

Summary:

In the Page Settings of each LibreTexts page is a summary block that will accept approximately three lines of text. Think of the summary as a tweet (viz. Twitter) on the
| subject of the page. It is almost the same length as a tweet and has a similar impact.

Article type: Stage: Author: Embed Hypothes.is?:

Section or Page v (not set) v (not set) v (not set) v
Figure 10.3.1: Summary block in the Page Settings of this page.

Adding a Summary to a page is not necessary; you and your text can live without them if you like. However, they are beneficial in
several ways:

1. If you do a search on our platform, the summary will show up next to the page to help searchers identify the page(s) that best
addresses their search

2. The summaries of Sections (on pages of content of a text) will show up on the Table of Contents (in Chapter Overview) in
PDFs and on chapter pages when viewed online (Figure 10.3.2).

3. The summaries of Chapters will show up in the Table of Contents in PDFs and if you hover your mouse over the chapter
thumbnails of a textbook.

4. The summaries are also used by Google to aid in search results to guide traffic to your texts (i.e., Search Engine Optimization).

3: Basic Editing

© ® Last updated: Dec 4, 2019, 2:20 AM by Delmar Larsen Page restriction: Public Page ID: 148792

yy "26: Bibliography | 3.1: Successfully Logging In > OE] Batch | ii Readability

The LibreTexts libraries are powered by the Mindtouch system. An exhaustive set of references for the tools on this powerful system can be found online at
attps://success.mindtouch.com/Author/Editor. The pages below summarize a subset of these tools that are useful in day-to-day use of the LibreTexts project.

AN INSTRUCTOR'S ACCOUNTS ALLOWS EDITING CAPABILITY ON ESSENTIALLY ALL PAGES ON THE LIBRARY

e The wiki infrastructure of the Libretexts makes it difficult to break anything. So feel free to experiment, play around, test things out.

e All edits are saved as revisions. You can always revert to any older revision via the "Revision history" button under "Options"

e All edits get sent to the LibreTexts development team for eventual review (not approval).

e You can sign up with your personal account to "Watch" page(s) if any edits occur (using the little star next to forward/back right below page title).

3.1: Successfully Logging In (2) 3.2: Creating a New Page

Before editing a page, you must first log in to the Libretexts AND have an A Quick-Edit tutorial on how to create new pages in the LibreText platform.
account that has editing capabilities.

3.3: Editing a Page [) 3.4: Adding Figures
A Quick-Edit tutorial on how to edit pages in the LibreText platform. A Quick-Edit tutorial on how to add figures to pages in the LibreText platform.
#) 3.5: Adding Videos (YouTube) 2) 3.6: Adding Tables
A Quick-Edit tutorial on how to add videos to pages in the LibreText platform. A Quick-Edit tutorial on how to add tables to pages in the LibreText platform.
(2) 3.7: Hyperlinking #) 3.8: Adding Predefined Template Code (e.g., Boxes)
A Quick-Edit tutorial on how to add hyperlinks to pages in the LibreText A Quick-Edit tutorial on how to add template code to pages in the LibreText
platform. platform.

Figure 10.3.2: Copy and Paste Caption here

This page titled 10.3: Adding Summary is shared under a CC BY 1.3 license and was authored, remixed, and/or curated by Delmar Larsen.

(cc) (#) 10.3.1 https ://chem.libretexts .org/@go/page/483728



--- Page Break ---

Oibretexts:

e 3.12: Adding Summary by Delmar Larsen is licensed CC BY 1.3.

(cc) Q 10.3.2 https ://chem.libretexts .org/@go/page/483728
