Oibretexts:

4.4: Catalog

Catalog Libraries Collections Homework Under Development

The World's Most Popular Online Textbook Platform, Centralized.

LibreCommons hosts curated Open Educational Resources from all 14 LibreTexts libraries in one convenient location. LibreCommons, the LibreTexts Libraries, and all of our resources are accessible to
everyone via the internet, completely free. We believe everyone should have access to knowledge.

Q
Search Catalog
" Advanced Search 4
Displaying 12 + _ items per page of 1,159 results. ( 1 2 3 4 5 . 97 ¥ Sort by... ~ Visual Mode -

Histology and Introduction to Introduction to Ethics Bioinorganic Statistical Introduction to

Embryology for Dental Business &euro; Humanities Chemistry Thermodynamics Childhood Studies
Hygiene § Business Noah Levin & Chemistry & Chemistry 4&8 Social Science

a Medicine Openstax Golden West College Ivano Bertini, Harry B. Gray, Gunnar Jeschke Susan Eliason

Laird C. Sheldahl Stephen J. Lippard, and Joan ETH Ziirich Bridgewater State University

. Selverstone Valentine
Mt. Hood Community College

The catalog page is divided into two parts, the upper part allows searching for specific books, the lower provides links to individual
books. If one expands the Advanced Search box

# Catalog Search

Q
Clear
v Advanced Search ¥
Library ' {central Bookshelves bd Subject od
Author ' Central Bookshelves License bd
Instructor/Remixer , Campus Bookshelves Publisher '
Learning Objects
items per page of 1,159 results. ( 1 2 3 4 5 we 97 ) Sort by Title

The default search is in the centrally curated Central Bookshelves of the libraries. If one is interested in a custom book on the
Campus Bookshelves and makes that selection. You can also restrict the search to a specific library, a subject in that library, an
author, a campus or a publisher.

Book Front Page

After a book has been located you can click on it to bring up more information on the book

https ://chem.libretexts .org/@go/page/483699



--- Page Break ---

Oibretexts:

Catalog

Libraries Collections

Homework

You are on: Catalog > Infant and Toddler Care and Development

{4

Infant and Toddler Care and
Development

& Amanda Taintor
438 Social Science

I ASCCC OERI Program

& Submit an Adoption Report
Submit a Peer Review

Read Online
Download PDF

Buy Print Copy

Download Pages ZIP

Download Print Files

Download LMS File

Table of Contents

Front Matter

1: Infants and Toddlers An Introduction
2: Overview of Physical Development
3: Health and Nutrition

4: Overview of Brain Development

5: Infant and Toddler Mental Health

qyvrveryr ye

6:Motor Development

© 6.1: Introduction

© 6.2: Reflexes

© 6,3: Developing a Sense of Peripersonal Space

© 64: Pikler and Gerber

© 6,5: Motor Development Trends

© 6.6: Gross and Fine Motor Development

© 6,7: Individual Differences- The Role of Cultural Childcare Practices
© 68: Motor Development- Relation with Other Areas of Development
© 6.9:Conclusion

© 6.10: References

7:Sensory and Perceptual Development

8: Overview of Cognitive Development

9: Theories of Cognitive development

10: Cognitive Development- Strategies in Group Care

14: Overview of Language Development

12: Theories of Language Acquisition

13: Supporting Language in Group Care

14: Multilingualism

15: Emotional Development

16: Social Development

17: Supporting Social and Emotional Development in Group Care

18: Attachment and Reciprocal Relationships

19: Temperament

Using the pane on the right one can quickly navigate to any page in the book. The blue box has selections to read the book from the
beginning on line, download the complete PDF, buy a print copy through the LibreTexts bookstore, and download the Common
Cartridge for integration of chapters and pages into an LMS. One can also submit an adoption report if the book is being used for a

class, or a peer review.

Adoption Report

If you are an instructor or student using this LibreText in your class, it would help us greatly if you would fill out this form.

Your Email *

&

lam a(n) *

Choose...
Student

Instructor

After selecting student or instructor a few questions appear

Student

Your Name*

Cancel

We are happy to hear that you are using LibreTexts in your classes.

How is this LibreText used in your class?

Choose...

Institution Name

Institution...

Class Name

Class...

https ://chem.libretexts .org/@go/page/483699


--- Page Break ---

Oibretexts:

Instructor Name
Instructor...

On a scale from 1 to 5, what is the quality of this LibreTexts content?

OOO0OO0

On a scale from 1 to 5, how easy is it to navigate the LibreTexts site?

OOO0O0

How did you access this LibreText? (Select all that apply)

O
OOOO

If you used a printed version of this LibreText, how much did it cost?
0
If you have additional comments, please share below

Comments...

Instructor

If you are using this LibreText in your class(es), please help us by providing some additional data.
Is your Institution part of the LibreNet consortium?

O

O

O

Class Name
Class...

If you have tought this class multiple times, please fill out this form for each.
When did you teach this class?
Choose...

Number of Students
0

Cost of textbook that LibreTexts replaced

https ://chem.libretexts .org/@go/page/483699



--- Page Break ---

Oibretexts:

In which ways did students use this LibreText in your class? (Select all that apply)

OO00

If you used a printed version of this LibreText, how much did it cost?

Ce

If you have additional comments, please share below

This page titled 4.4: Catalog is shared under a CC BY 1.3 license and was authored, remixed, and/or curated by Delmar Larsen.

e 10.1.4: Catalog by Delmar Larsen is licensed CC BY 1.3.

https ://chem.libretexts .org/@go/page/483699
