Oibretexts:

5.3.1: Edit Properties

This section contains information on the Project and the Book associated with it. It can be filled in at any time (or not at all, but
there is information that will be useful to you and to others who use your book. We've filled in information for an existing
Libretexts. This is also the place (at the very bottom) where you can delete a Project.

If you make any changes you have to save them. The Save Button is at the bottom of the page

Project Properties

Project Title *

Econ 1020: Principles of Macroeconomics

Status Classification Visibility
Open/In Progress ~ - Private (only collaborators) '
Private (only collaborators)
Clear... Harvesting
Public (within Conductor)
Available Curation
Open/In Progress .
Pen/ Z Construction
Completed
Technology
LibreFest

Course Report

Adoption Request

Miscellaneous

At the top is the name of the Project which is filled in automatically from the Project Title. Next are a set of properties set by drop
down menus. The choices will be displayed on the main project page as will be shown in Section 5.4: Project Properties and Links.
The properties below are optional but it is strongly recommended that they be filled out. Project Tags and the Associated
Organizations are the most important. The Tags become the metatags for searching in Commons, the Associated Organizations are
are institutions associated with the books (e.g. your college). C-ID is a California scheme for categorizing courses.

(cc) (#) 5.3.1.1 https ://chem.libretexts .org/@go/page/483703


--- Page Break ---

Oibretexts:

Project Description

Characters remaining: 500

Principal Investigators
Co-Principal Investigators
Content Area

Project Tags

C-ID (if applicable) @
Associated Organizations
Thumbnail @

£ Upload

Project Modules are areas that are inserted into the Project Page. Discussion is for passing messages between team members,
Assets are supplementary files, such as presentation decks or instructor's manuals and tasks build a timeline for the project,
especially important for large teams. These can be enabled or disabled. You can use the arrows next to the on/off switches to
change the order on the pages. If the Commons page is to be linked to an ADAPT homework system course insert the URL. Source
properties refer to the original OER source for this Project/LibreTexts

(cc) (#) 5.3.1.2 https ://chem.libretexts .org/@go/page/483703


--- Page Break ---

Oibretexts:

Project Modules

Enable, disable, or re-order the display of modules in your project's page.

Discussion v a
Assets t Vv a
Tasks + a

Homework and Assessments

Use this section to link your project's Commons page (if applicable) to an ADAPT assessment system course. Ensure the course allows anonymous users.

ADAPT Course URL (if applicable) @

Source Properties
Use this section if your project pertains to a particular resource or tool.

Author Author's Email

License Original URL

Asset Settings refer to the default settings for Assets such as powerpoint decks that you attach to the Project Page. See Section 5.6
for details.

Asset Settings

Default License

Use this section to set the default license information for uploaded assets. Users will be able to override this setting on a per-file basis.

Name
File Source URL

File modified from source?

Additional License Terms

Characters remaining: 500

Default Primary Author

+ Manual Entry

Default Contact Person

+ Manual Entry
Default Additional Author(s)

7
-
-
'

https ://chem.libretexts .org/@go/page/483703


--- Page Break ---

Oibretexts:

The end of the Edit Properties page allows you to set Discussion Notification defaults, provide additional information OR DELETE
THE PROJECT

There is no recovery if the project is deleted.

Discussion Settings

Default Message Notification Type

Additional Information

Notes

vy Danger Zone

Use caution with the options in this area!

Delete Project

Cancel a Save Changes

If you make changes you have to SAVE them.

This page titled 5.3.1: Edit Properties is shared under a CC BY 1.3 license and was authored, remixed, and/or curated by Delmar Larsen.

(cc) (#) 5.3.1.4 https ://chem.libretexts .org/@go/page/483703
