Oibretexts:

3.1: Definitions - Books, Remixes, and TextMaps

Each of the libraries is organized into "bookshelves" (Campus Bookshelf, Bookshelf, Anicllary Materials, etc). It is useful to
imagine you are on a campus with many library building, and in each building are just a few bookshelves. On those shelves, we
have different types of resources. For our analogy, we often refer to these resources as "books." However, these resources may be
called textbooks, textmaps, or courses depending on where they are and what the collection really should be used for.

Within the Campus Bookshelf will be Remixes of other materials from other shelves, including faculty-written materials such as
syllabi, schedules, links to ADAPT homework, or even material from other libraries (for instance, a bit of statistics from the stats
library within an economics book). These are often referred to as Courses or Course Shells but have the same structure as a book
on a bookshelf. Below you can see a few books from a given institution, which are labeled with the course name.

Sacramento City College
Last updated: Dec 13, 2019, 12:29 PM by admin Page restriction: Public Page ID: 16145

Sacramento City College is a two-year community college located in Sacramento, California and is part of the Los Rios Community College District.

ENTR 356: Bootstrap | Human Relations and RE 320: My RE Finance

(Mom) | | Marketing for | | Organizational Behavior Textbook (Shull)
: | Entrepreneurs i | i |

As discussed earlier discussing bookshelves, these courses can contain another unit which consists of the "textbook" for the
course.

There are three general classes of texts or textbooks found in the LibreTexts: "Textbooks, "Remixes" and "Textmaps".

e Textbooks are texts that are original content that have integrated content into our library and are identified by "Book:" in their
titles.

e Remixes are texts are created from existing OER content although often has topical or extensive editing by the remixing team
to customize the text for the needs of an instructor or team of instructors. Constructing Remixes on the LibreTexts platform is
facilitated by the OER Remixer tool. The title of the Remix often starts with the campus acronym (e.g., the Chemistry 110A
remix at the University of California is "UCD: Chem 110A Introductory Quantum Mechanics") and often will be within a
Course Shell as discussed above.

e Textmaps are specialized remixes that are constructed to follow the organization of existing commercial textbooks. Textmaps
facilitate adoption by faculty that are unable to switch from a commercial textbook to an OER alternative; these texts are
identified by "Map:" in their titles.

* Ethics and Legality of Textmaps

There was a court case in 1980 where the complaint was dismissed because, although the structure was the same, the
"expression" i.e. writing was distinct. The more recent case from late 2018 says structure is part of the overall picture, and
should be considered. It may be copyrightable if it were super creative, but not if it was "indispensable or standard" for the
subject matter (494 F. Supp. 218). More from the case: "Similarities in chapter arrangement or structure matter less than the
expressive content contain therein. Cf. Morrison v. Solomons, 494 F.Supp. 218, 225 (S.D.N.Y. 1980) ("The significant question
is not whether titles of subchapters and chapters are the same but rather whether the explanation or treatment of the subject
matter within them is substantially similar.")."

(cc) (#) https ://chem.libretexts .org/@go/page/483711



--- Page Break ---

Oibretexts:

This page titled 3.1: Definitions - Books, Remixes, and TextMaps is shared under a CC BY 1.3 license and was authored, remixed, and/or curated
by Delmar Larsen.

¢ 7.1: Definitions - Books, Remixes, and TextMaps by Delmar Larsen is licensed CC BY 1.3.

https ://chem.libretexts .org/@go/page/483711
