Oibretexts:

10.5: Adding Authorbars (Meta-Tags)

Attribution is important for both academia and for most open licenses in OER. At present, to ensure proper credit is given and that
any attribution requirements for licensing is satisfied, the LibreTexts libraries are equipped for adding an author bar to each page.
There are several ways of doing this in LibreTexts. One is discussed in this section, the others in Section 10.7. If an author has
created the content of a page (not remixed it) the first way is to use the meta-tag "Author" option in the collapsible "Page Settings"
option of each page (Figure 10.5.1). For example, the author bar for "Delmar Larsen" is indicated on this page (see above). New
author bars can be created by the LibreTexts development team as needed/requested. Rather than scrolling through the list start by
typing the name of the author and auto completion will bring you to the complete name if it is on the list.

[A eat New ih Remixer et Downloads Options KS Site tools z admin

= Contents| ff Home " [ff¥\ CampusCourses " §f\ Remixer University " fff ConstructionGuide " a 2: Basic Editing

- Page settings (2)

Summary:

Add page summary

Article type: Stage: Author: Embed Hypothes.is?:

v not set) v (not set) v not set) v

(not set) -
Tim Soderberg
Embebbed CalcPlot3D?: Embebbed Vlab?: Robert Cichewicz Embed JSmol:
Robert Carter -
Nancy Levinger
Mark Draganjac

(not set) v not set) -

Embed 3Dmol: Embed Jupyter: Oliver Seely hidetop:
(not set) v ot set v Lisa Nichols not set) v
Thomas Wenzel
OpenStax
Cover Page: License: Patrick Fleming Page Type:
Stephen Lower
(not set) v not set, v Robert Belford not set) v

Jack Simons
David Harvey

= ChemPRIME
+ Add new tag here Allison Soult
6 Jim Clark
This page has no custom tags Elizabeth Gordon v

2.10: Adding Authorbars
Figure 10.5.1: Author options on the Chemistry Library.

If an author is not found in the available option contact the LibreTexts Development team to add it via
https://commons.libretexts.org/support/contact or info@libretexts.org.

Once an author has been selected, a popup will appear

Moply new tags to subpages?

Update tags Cancel

(cc) (#) 10.5.1 https ://chem.libretexts .org/@go/page/483726


--- Page Break ---

Oibretexts:

Be careful of the Apply new tags to subpages choice if the author of choice has only created the single page you are on, as it will
overwrite all pages.

Once the author has been set, a line will appear at the bottom of the page

This page titled 10.5: Adding Authorbars (Meta-Tags) is shared under a CC BY 1.3 license and was authored, remixed, and/or
curated by Delmar Larsen.

The title (10.5: Adding Authorbars (Meta-Tags)) is automatically inserted, the license is inserted from the meta tags License and
License Version and the link to the Author metatag is placed at the end. This satisfies the conditions of the Creative Commons BY
license. The Author Bar at the top of the page under the title, does not!

In some cases other methods for acknowledging authors are needed. For example if a remixed page has been heavily edited. See
Section 10.7 for details

This page titled 10.5: Adding Authorbars (Meta-Tags) is shared under a CC BY 1.3 license and was authored, remixed, and/or curated by Delmar
Larsen.

e 3.10: Adding Authorbars (Meta-Tags) by Delmar Larsen is licensed CC BY 1.3.

(cc) (#) 10.5.2 https ://chem.libretexts .org/@go/page/483726
