Oibretexts:

14.4: Adding New Assessments

Once an assignment is created, instructors need to add assessments before students can use ADAPT. There are three approaches to
address this: (1) adding via the Assignment Remixer, (2) adding via Meta-tag searches, and (3) direct adding via page ID codes.

Adapt Assignment Remixer
The Assignment Remixer is modeled after the OER Remixer on the LibreTexts libraries to faciliate easy drag and drop of

assessments in an existing assignment.

1. Open the Assignment.
2. Click "Add Assessment"

Assignment Information
This assignment doesn't have any questions.

Questions

Auto-Graded Submissions
Summary

Statistics

Assignment Gradebook

Course Gradebook

Figure 14.4.1: Add new assessments to the assignment by clicking on "Add Assessments" button

3. Open "Assignment Remixer" Tab
4. You can filter courses by School, Instructor's name, course name or all three

5. Select the assignment
6. Move questions from the left side of the screen to the right to add them to your assignment.

Add Questions to "New Assignment"

Assignment Remixer Search Query By Tag _Direct Import By Page Id
School University of Arkansas
Instructor Bob Belford

Course Chem 1300: Preparatory Chemistry (UA Little Rock)

Assignment 2.5: Measured Numbers and Significant Digits (Quiz)
Possible Questions © Add all questions Chosen Questions
Title Submission Order Title Submission
4: Count Significant Digits Text ==) 1: Addition B Text
2 2: Conversions Text
3 5: Operations Practice @ File

Figure 14.4.2: After selecting the assignment you want to copy assessments from, you can drag and drop the assessments to the
left to add them to your assignment

7. You can preview any question by clicking on its name.

8. Click "Add all questions" if you want to add all listed questions

9. You can delete chosen questions by clicking on the Recycle Bin icon next to it

(cc) (#) 14.4.1 https ://chem.libretexts .org/@go/page/483787


--- Page Break ---

Oibretexts:

Chosen Questions

Order Title Submission
1 1: Addition = Text
2 2: Conversions W Text
3) 5: Operations Practice W File

Figure 14.4.3: Delete questions by clicking on the Recycle Bin icon

10. You don't have to save your selection. Once you leave this page, all of the questions that you've selected will be added to your
assignment.

Adding Assessments by Tag

An alternative way to add assessments to an assignment is to search for meta-information on the question, e.g., subject, author, key

words, learning objectives etc. Build and aligning to tagging frameworks is still underway, so this feature has limited utility at this
time.

You can add assessments from the Query Database using tags. To do that:
1. Open the Assignment.
2. Click "Add Assessments"
3. Open "Search Query by Tag" tab
4. Start typing the tag (you can use any word related to the questions you are looking for - topic, concept, etc.).

Assignment Remixer Search Query By Tag _Direct Import By Page Id
Search Query By Tag
Search for query questions by tag which can then be added to your Chosen Tags:

assignment. @

entropy

No tags have been chosen.

centralizers

Figure 14.4.4: Start typing the tag to see all matching tags
5. Select the right tag from the drop-down list and click "Get Questions". The tag will be added to "Chosen Tags" section on the
right. You can delete the tag by clicking on the recycle bin icon next to it
6. All questions that are currently in the Query that have that tag assigned to them will be shown below. You can go through all of

them by clicking at the numbers and select the questions that you want. To add an assessment click "Add Question". If the
question was added successfully you will see a confirmation message

In a large manufacturing plant. a pump is used to move a liquid fuel from a below-ground tank to a raised furnace. The total elevation change that the
fuel experiences is 15 meters. The flow rate is 1.7 kg/s.

(a) If the fuel is ethanol (p = 790 kg/m*), what is the total pressure increase that the pump will need to impart on the fuel?
kPa

(b) If the fuel is ethanol, what is the minimum power required?
kW

(c) If the fuel is propane (p = 500 kg/m), what is the minimum power required?

kW

Figure 14.4.5: Use the numbers above the question to preview all assessments associated with the chosen tag

(cc) (#) 14.4.2 https ://chem.libretexts .org/@go/page/483787


--- Page Break ---

Oibretexts:

Adding Assessments by Page ID

The LibreTexts library editor and infrastructure is used as the primary mechanism to create, curate, and add problems to the
ADAPT library. This is a straightforward procedure once a problem has been created on a LibreTexts library as a dedicated page.
Each LibreTexts page has a ID# at the top (once logged in with an instructor account). This is the procedure to add an assessment
on a new LibreTexts page into your assignment.

1. Open the Assignment.

2. Click "Add Assessments"

3. Open "Direct import by page ID" tab

4. Navigate to the page in LibreText library (Query or any other Library) and copy the page ID (numbers only)

00110687

Last updated: Jul 16, 2020, 10:47 AM by LibreBot Page restriction: Public] Page ID: 93104

Rank the colors of light from least energy to highest.

v | blue
v| yellow
[-  v|red
[- __v | violet
- _v|green

v | orange

Try a similar question

Figure 14.4.6: Copy the page ID
5. Navigate back to Adapt page.
6. Choose Default Library (the library where the question is located) from drop-down menu and type/paste the page ID in the field
on the right

Assignment Remixer search Query By Tag _ Direct Import By Page Id

Direct Import By Page Id

Perform a direct import of questions directly into your assignment from 93104

any library. Please enter your questions using a comma separated list
of the form {library}-{page id}.

oO.

Default Library @ Query

o

Figure 14.4.7: Choose Default Library and paste the page ID
7. Click "Import Questions". If the import was successful you will see a confirmation.

Note: you can add more than one question from the same library using page ID's. To do that, type/paste page ID's separated with
comas and click "Import Questions".

This page titled 14.4: Adding New Assessments is shared under a CC BY 1.3 license and was authored, remixed, and/or curated by Delmar
Larsen.

" 9.4: Adding New Assessments by Delmar Larsen is licensed CC BY 1.3.

(cc) (#) 14.4.3 https ://chem.libretexts .org/@go/page/483787
